All right, welcome back.
We have our Hello World app, but that doesn't look very cool.
We want to make our robo friends app.
So in this video, we're going to get started by building our first component.
If we go back here, we remember that we have the terminal on the right hand side and we just ran and
start and Korea exact checks, all the files for us, make sure there's no errors.
It says that our app is defined but never used.
So let's comment this out again.
Comment again, say this and you'll see that everything's working fine.
Now, you may have a few questions just on this index, not just file one, we see that we're importing
react, but how come that's working?
We remember that it didn't work before.
We had to use require and then Browsr five.
Again, react has Westpac underneath the hood that does the bundling for us, so we're allowed to use
imports.
As long as we keep these at the top of the file, we can import whatever other files we want or whatever
packages we want.
We also see that there's two things react and react, Dom.
If you remember, react is a view library, so this is the little robot that we remember from the previous
video.
It's the core of the package that does the DOM manipulation for us.
But as I said before, react can be used in multiple places, not just the browser, it can be used
for mobile devices, it can be used for virtual reality, and you can plug and play different libraries
like this based on what screen you're rendering to so react.
Dom is used for the DOM websites, so it's the glue of react, but we can have something like React
Native that actually renders to mobile phones.
We also have import and export success, and this is a new Syntex, well, react allows us to access
not just in one file, but for each different component.
If we go to Apgar's, well, we have access that describes the app.
If we go to index jobs while we have index access that has its own style and these cells will only apply
to whatever components index Sarge's renders.
And the way we use it is we just say import and then unlike a react package where we just say the name
of the package and it automatically knows to check the known moggies Falder, we have to tell it where
index cowslips and the syntax of dot slash means it's in the same directory.
So it's saying checking the source folder index that counts should be there.
OK.
And finally, we see register service worker, and this is an advanced topic that we won't cover in
this course, but think of service workers as a new feature that allows our apps to become faster and
potentially work offline.
It's something that we don't need to concern ourselves with.
So for now, you can comment this out and it will still work, but we'll keep it here just because create
react up gives this to us for free.
The things that we really, really care about, though, is well.
This line over here, this whole thing is what really does it saying I want the reactant package to
use the function render and this render is I want you to render whatever this is.
But if you remember, before we had.
And well, this isn't really an e-mail tag, is it?
We've just created this from.
It looks like the same directory, there's something called app, and it doesn't have a GPS file like
we see it over here, and that is because it automatically says that if there's no DOT success or any
type after it, well, it assumes that it's JavaScript.
But this will work as well, as you can see.
OK, so let's go to App Dodge's file and see why we can use this e-mail tech that we've created if we
go to Apgar's file.
Well, again, we see that we're importing something.
We're doing something called the structuring here and getting component as well.
And we have a few files like Logo CFG and Abduh Access that we're importing, and again, we see that
our Syntex is a little bit off, so make sure that we change our files to JavaScript Bable.
And it looks like class app extends component that comes with react, and this is just standard syntax.
This renders.
Remember, a component always has the rule that it must render at least something, and the way we do
that is we return a ASML piece of the website.
So we see over here, welcome to react to get started at it.
Well, that's exactly what it says over here.
That is the power of react.
We're creating our own custom components, our own custom HTML tags that we can just add.
And if you remember the one way flow picture, we have one parent that has children so apass children.
But you know what?
Let's build our own component to make this point clear.
Instead of having Hello World in here, let's create a component called Hello.
And it's a self-closing tag, so you want to have the backslash and in here, instead of saying import
app lets to import hello from we'll call it.
Hello, Jess, and you'll notice that it's capitalized here.
Well, if you're building a component, the standard is that it's capitalized.
So it'll be called Hello Jess.
If we see this, we'll get an air says module not found, can't resolve because the file doesn't exist.
So let's create one.
I'm going to say new file.
Hello, James.
There you go.
We have a new hello, gorgeous file, and it's compiled successfully if we go to the website.
Well, look at that.
It actually even gives us air on the website.
And that's why Create Ragtop is just so awesome.
It shows you exactly what the areas are without opening up the console right here.
Again, we have nothing built right now in hello, so we need to create it, let's use the app that
just as an example, it looks like we need to import react.
And component, so we need to say no react component from react, OK?
And the reason we're doing this, again, this is the structuring.
Instead of doing react dot component, we can now just do.
Component, and it means the same thing.
Again, looking at this, it looks like we say class, our component name extends component.
Let's do that.
Class, we'll call this hello again, that's what our component's called extends.
And again, remember to change our.
JavaScript to bable.
And if you remember, one rule is that we always want to have a render function.
And within this render function, we tell it what we want to return.
Well, we want to return the Hello World example, but we can say each one.
Hello, world.
OK, let's see what happens when I do this, I save.
And it says export default import is hello was not found.
Well, it's because we're not exporting this.
Remember, if we want another file to use it, we have to export and we use export default when we're
just exporting one thing, if we use the word default, that means this file only exports one thing
and that is the app.
So I can say export.
Default, hello.
Looks like it's working.
Let's see what happens in our Web site.
Hello, World, we've just created our very first component.
Now, right now, we only have one line, but what if I wanted to do something like d'Hiv wrapping it
in a div and maybe underneath here all say a paragraph that says, welcome to react.
And it's because we're just giving him multiple lines here and returns, expecting a single thing,
we need to wrap this in brackets.
In order to have JavaScript say this is an expression, evaluate this entire thing if we save this.
Looks like it's working and then hello, world, welcome to react.
Within here, if you remember, if we import.
Dot hello, dot success, we can create whatever styles we want, but we need to create that file first.
So let's do.
You follow up and I need to add an O in here, then you file name will be Hello CSFs.
Now in hello, that counts, I can just say that the H1 and this is just standard access will have background
of red.
I'm going to save save this as well.
Everything looks good.
And look at that.
But you know what, to make this faster and because we've gone over a success, I want to show you a
cool package called tachyons.
And tachyons allows us to have similar to bootstrap predefined class names that we can just add to components
to make things look really, really nice.
So let's do that.
I'm going to close this and say NPM install tachyons.
All right, it's added a package we can check by going to package that, Jason, we see that tachyons
are there and we can use tachyons very easily by just going to indexer Jaspal and saying import.
And now we have access to this package just to show you what tachyons are, if I go to Tachyons Siles.
It gives us little classes that we can use that, for example, text's center will just say Tsay, and
as long as we have tachyons installed and we use text class name, it will align our text.
So now that we have tachyons and its index such as file, we can just say within here.
F one for one, and Texana, if I save, I have to do npm start here, make sure that our server is
running so that we can check our changes and we.
Get hello, world, welcome to react, but there's actually one trick here if you open up the console,
although this worked, I get a warning saying invalid Don property class.
Did you mean class name and react to really, really good at giving you errors.
And you might be asking yourself.
Why class name instead of class, because if I say this, go back.
I no longer have that air.
Hmm, why is that?
Well, up until this point, we've kind of just been HTML, but this is a JavaScript file.
How are we able to do this?
This is actually something called JSM.
Part of react is that it allows you to write this HTML like syntax in your JavaScript.
And you might be asking yourself, one, doesn't that break the rule of separation of concerns?
And two, how are we even able to add a multi JavaScript to answer the first question, separation of
concerns react has the idea of components, and that is it's better to have functionality and styles
per component so that each component is its own separate universe.
And you just add these components.
And the idea of separation of concerns with react is that components, well, they're concerned about
themselves, nothing else.
So it changes the paradigm here.
And it's kind of nice, right?
I can just look at the Hillo component.
I know exactly what it's doing.
I can look at the success.
And any time I need to make a change, I just need to worry about the files that contain the hillocks
and JavaScript.
The second thing is this, this thing called Jair sex underneath the hood, what reactor's doing is
actually letting you use the syntax, but they're not actual ASTM all tax.
Remember what I said about the virtual dom and how react creates its own object and then looks at the
DOM and compares it and says, I need to change this and it does it for us.
React uses sex to create their virtual dom, their fake dom that they built based on what we give it
to them.
Then they look at this virtual Dom and the real Dom and say, this part has changed.
I'm going to change the DOM now based on the virtual dom.
And that is why react is really, really fast.
It creates these objects, which is really fast in JavaScript and only changes what needs to be done
in the DOM.
So just get used to it.
It's awkward at first, but again, as long as you wrap it in a bracket, you can write here a HTML
as well as your own custom components such as hello that we used in index Jaspal.
And now maybe it makes sense why we can't say class here.
Because class is a reserved key word in JavaScript class is part of the language that JavaScript uses.
So if this is JavaScript, the fact that we're seeing class here doesn't make sense.
In the old version of react, this actually broke react, but now it gives us a nicer air because this
is JavaScript and not ASML, we have to say class name and it's something that you'll get used to,
you'll get tricked up with at the beginning, but it becomes easy after a while.
All right.
The last thing I'm going to show you is the power of react within the Halo component.
I can now add something called props or properties.
And these props can be called anything, think of them as animal attributes, I can say greeting equals
and then within here I want to wrap it in curly brackets and this is a JavaScript expression.
Whatever I want, I can say.
Ninja.
And if I save this.
I get an error saying that no useless concatenation, so it's saying that, hey, why are you even adding
things?
You can just put them all together.
So it's smart enough to even give you suggestions or warnings of when you're doing something that's
not clean.
But for now, for demonstration purposes, this is fine.
Now that I've given it what we call a greeting prop to hello, I now have access and hello dogs to props.
I can now say.
This dot props dot greeting.
Go back and I say, hello, react ninja.
You see with this syntax, it's saying that this object, which is hello, has properties, props,
that is greeting I know this is confusing is just the syntax you have to get used to, but now we have
access to whatever property.
And whatever property value we get from hello.
This is a power that will come in handy later on, but I want you to build your own component here and
get comfortable with the syntax.
It is really, really powerful, and once you get used to it, you can build any components you want.
OK, one final thing.
This index might be kind of difficult, but I want to show you that this is actually just a function.
If I do const.
Hello, and in here, this function.
Accepts props.
If I do an air function here, wrap it in curly brackets, and instead of doing this render.
I just simply.
If I save this.
Well, I'm getting in her because this props out greetings doesn't really exist because it's not an
object anymore, it is a function.
So I don't need the props.
It receives props, whatever parameters we give it, and props.
That greeting is acceptable to us.
I say this, go back and look at that.
It's working.
It's just functions.
Think of reactors that we're just creating these functions that take parameters and these parameters
which are given by giving attributes and values are just being rendered.
I have access to props.
That greeting.
If I give it another prop here called let's say dog, then I'll have props.
Dog dog available to me as well.
And again, we get a nice little error saying that component, we're grabbing this, but we're not really
using it and we're using unnecessary strain concatenation.
Again, really useful, as you can see.
Fairly simple to pick up.
In the next lesson, we're going to start actually working on our robo friends app now that we have
the basics.
I've seen that one by.